Okay so I have copied the code
from the R Markdown document and
of the next set of examples and here what
I'm going to show you is I'm going to
first go to the user interface and
then I'll go to the server calculations.
Remember what were trying to
show is reactive expressions.
Okay so again we have our library
shiny statement right there.
Okay, we have shinyUI,
fluidPage, we've got a title and
then we're going to have
a side bar lay out with this.
Okay, so that's this right here which is,
and then that contains the side bar panel,
these commands right here and
the main panel, these commands right here.
So, the sidebarPanel is
going to contain the inputs and
the mainPanel is going to
contain the outputs.
So the sidebarPanel includes
a sliderInput, okay.
And remember, what that's going to
be labeled as, as a sliderMPG.
So we're inputting the MPG from the car,
and then this check box, are going to tell
wether not you want to show certain model
values in the output, in the mainPanel.
Okay.
And then you know,
we give it the default value of 20 and
a range from 10 miles per
gallon to 35 miles per gallon.
And the goal is to create something
that then displays your prediction for
the horsepower.
Then in the mainPanel,
and just by the way,
the inputs are showModel1 and showModel2.
The main panel then it's going
to show the output plot1.
So were going to look in our server
function for plot label plot1 to make sure
that it's there, because it's going to
get displayed here in our mainPanel.
Then we're going to have our
output from prediction one, and
that's going to be labeled pred1,
so we need some sort of
output from our server that is
going to be labeled pred1 and
another one that's labeled pred2, that
are both going to be textOutput, okay.
So that's what our user
interface is doing.
It's getting a slider input.
To get in MPG,
that slider's label is sliderMPG.
It's going to have the two checkboxes for
whether or
not it's going to show that
particular model output.
So that's what it's going to
send to the server.
Those are some information that's
going to be sent to the server as input,
and what we're expecting from our server
functions is output Is we're expecting
a plot labeled plot1, we're expecting text
labeled pred1 and text labeled pred2.
Okay, now let's look at our server.
So, here's our shinyServer function and
then it's contains this function
that contains input and output.
First thing it looks for, or
first thing it's going to do
is it's going to take the mtcars
dataset which is loaded by default.
So if I just type mtcars then you can just
see the data set it's loaded by default.
It's one of the more common
example data sets used in R and
it's basically going to create
this is just a spline term.
So is the mpg of the car is larger
than 20 this is going to return
the mpg otherwise it's
going to return 0 and
that's useful if you want to feed a model
that has kind of of a broken stick feeds.
So it has a line and then a break
point at 20 and then another line and
the two lines meet continuously at that
break point, so then what's going on in
the code is it's fitting this
first model that just has mpg and
the second model that has mpg in this
break point in the middle, okay?
So it's fitting two models and
these two models are what's going
to be used to form the prediction.
Okay, now, let's actually get
the prediction for model one.
Okay?
Now, we're doing calculations based on
inputted values from our user interface,
so it needs to be in a reactive statement.
So here we see this reactive statement,
we see this funny notation where we
have a parenthesis and a curly braces.
Okay, and then we're going to relabel
the input just as a regular R variable
because it gets annoying to type input$ so
often.
So we have mpgInput is
just the input$sliderMPG,
and remember sliderMPG is what we names
the slider value in our user interface.
Okay?
And then this predict statement is
just going to use model1, okay?
So, uses model1,
you can see it right there.
Uses model1, and
it's going to predict it at the new
value input from the slider, okay?
So that's model1.
And then model2 is going to do the same
thing with the exception that we
have to also create this variable
if our input value is bigger
than 20 it returns that otherwise
it's going to return 0.
So it's the same thing only now we've
created this second variable mpgsp,
right, and that's this extra spline term,
so we have our two
reactive assigned variables,
model1 pred, and model2 pred.
Okay.
Now, the first output that we're
going to create is output$plot1.
Remember, that our user interface is
looking for a plot labeled plot1.
And because it's a plot,
we're going to say it's a renderPlot.
Okay and that funny notation
where it's the parentheses and
then the curly braces
inside the parentheses.
So we're grabbing our mpgInput.
That's just the sliderMPG again.
And then we're going to create a plot and
the plot you're all familiar with R
plotting so you can just go through and
see how the plot's working.
But then also what I would like
you to look for first right here,
if show model1,
then it's adding the fit for the model1,
and if showModel2,
it's going to add the fit for model2.
So, that's one thing it has this
conditional values for whether or
not those lines are going to be in there.
It's got a nice legend.
And then if you look down here I guess
this is the most important part I want to
show is we want to add some points at
the miles per gallon that you input.
That's this values right here remember
we reassigned that from the slider
value up here.
So we just rename it
from the input$sliderMPG.
Okay?
But then also we want the result of our
reactive expression, model1pred, and so
we're putting that in there.
But remember you gotta access
that number as a function, right?
Because it was from a reactive expression
other where in the code, okay?
So it's gotta be.
So this'll just return the number.
If you don't actually put those
parentheses there, it'll return
the function, which points won't know
what to plot because it's a function.
So if you want it to
put that in the number,
you have to put the parentheses there.
Then here is the second one.
So these will add the points.
So the output of this
is going to be a plot
that's going to be passed
back to our user interface.
It's going to have if the check boxes are
checked it's going to have the two fitted
lines, it's going to have the data it's
using to fit those lines on there, but
then it's also going to have specific
points at our two prediction values.
Okay, great.
And then it's also,
remember it's looking for a pred1,
in other words it wants
to see the prediction.
And so we're going to do that and
that needs to be text, so
it's going to be renderText({,
and then model1pred().
And then we're going to do pred2, okay?
And that's renderText({ again,
and model2pred().
And remember, in both cases, we're
remembering to do the parentheses for
our reactive expression.
Okay, now let's go ahead and
run it and see how it works.
And there it is.
Okay so here's our slider.
As we change or slider, what you're
going to see is the two points,
the points where we're predicting at.
And you can see the two models here.
The red one, which had no spline term,
and the blue one,
which had this spline term at 20 so you
see it looks like a little broken stick.
So our two models, and then down here
we see the prediction from model1 and
the prediction for model2.
So, exactly as we were
hoping it would work.
And then you can show or hide the first
line, or show or hide the second line.
So, I think now once you
recreate this example,
I think you'll be at the point where you
can actually do some fairly complicated
things in shiny and
it's an incredibly useful tool.
Next, what we're going to want to go
through is just showing how to put
conditional expressions where you'll
operate on the code conditionally upon
clicking a done button or
something like this.
But at this point,
I think you should probably be able
to make shiny pretty useful for you.
So, go ahead and try this example,
and I think after the next lecture,
you'll have a pretty solid foundation for
working on your shiny apps and creating
things that are quite useful for you, and
then, of course, useful for
others when you put them on the internet.